README.md, before:

# Overweight

An all-in-one toolkit for keeping your bundle sizes in check. It ships with a CLI, Node API, and GitHub Action, plus a tester architecture that lets you decide how assets are evaluated.

## Highlights

- Drop-in configuration: define `overweight` entries in `package.json` or `overweight.config.json`.
- Works everywhere: CLI, Node API, and an official reusable GitHub Action.
- Extensible testers: start with `gzip` (default), `brotli`, or `none`, and plug in your own logic programmatically.
- Globs & multi-match aware: every file matched by a glob is tracked individually.
- Conventional commits + semantic-release driven publishing with automatic changelog generation.
- Modern successor to the original `bundlesize`: migration is trivial, yet the project stands on its own roadmap.

## Installation

```sh
pnpm add -D overweight
```

## Configuration

Keep your configuration close to your code:

- `overweight.json` (or `overweight.config.json`) at the project root (default when the CLI runs without args).
- `package.json` → `overweight` field (array or object with a `files` property).
- Any JSON file referenced via `overweight --config path/to/config.json`.

```json
{
  "files": [
    {
      "path": "./dist/vendor.js",
      "maxSize": "30 kB",
      "compression": "gzip",
      "label": "Vendor bundle"
    },
    {
      "path": "./dist/chunk-*.js",
      "maxSize": "10 kB",
      "compression": "brotli"
    }
  ]
}
```

Field reference:

| Field        | Type            | Description                                                                 |
| ------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `path`       | string          | File path or glob resolved from the config root.                            |
| `maxSize`    | string \| number | Accepts units (`10 kB`, `2MiB`). Numbers are treated as raw bytes.          |
| `compression`| string          | Tester id (`gzip`, `brotli`, `none`). Defaults to `gzip`.                   |
| `label`      | string          | Optional human-friendly label used in reports.                              |

## CLI

```sh
pnpm overweight
pnpm overweight --config ./configs/overweight.json
pnpm overweight --reporter json

# quick ad-hoc checks
pnpm overweight --file "dist/*.js" --max-size "15 kB" --compression brotli
```

Available reporters: `console` (default), `json`, `json-file`, `silent`.

```sh
# emit a machine-readable report
pnpm overweight --reporter json-file --report-file ./reports/overweight.json
```

## Node API

```js
import { runChecks, normalizeConfig } from "overweight";

const config = normalizeConfig({
  files: [{ path: "./dist/app.js", maxSize: "15 kB", compression: "brotli" }]
});

const result = await runChecks(config, {
  testers: {
    custom: {
      id: "custom",
      label: "custom",
      async measure(buffer) {
        return { bytes: buffer.byteLength / 2 };
      }
    }
  }
});

if (result.stats.hasFailures) {
  throw new Error("Bundle too big!");
}
```

## GitHub Action

```yaml
name: bundle-overweight-test

on:
  pull_request:
  push:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  overweight:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: pnpm/action-setup@v3
        with:
          version: 9
      - run: pnpm install
      - uses: yoavniran/overweight@v1
        with:
          config: overweight.json
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          baseline-report-path: overweight-report.json
          update-baseline: true
          report-file: overweight-report.json
```

- `report-json`, `report-table`, and `report-file` outputs enable downstream workflows (PR comments, Slack alerts, artifact uploads, etc.).
- When `baseline-report-path` + `update-baseline` are set, the action refreshes the stored bundle size report on the branch that ran the workflow. If `baseline-report-path` is omitted and `report-file` is set, the baseline defaults to that path. The update runs on a dedicated branch + pull request using `update-pr-title`, `update-pr-body`, and `update-branch-prefix`. Use `baseline-protected-branches` (default `main,master`, supports glob patterns) to block updates on protected branches.
- `comment-on-pr-always` (first run only) and `comment-on-pr-each-run` control when PR comments are posted even if checks pass.
- Additional outputs (`report-file`, `baseline-updated`, `baseline-update-pr-url`, `baseline-update-pr-number`) make it easy to chain artifact uploads or follow-up workflows.

### Baseline auto-PR requirements

When `update-baseline: true`, Overweight will:

1. Regenerate the baseline snapshot locally.
2. Create a temporary branch from the PR's base branch.
3. Commit the updated baseline file with the bot identity.
4. Open a pull request targeting the base branch using the configured title/body.

To allow that flow:

- Ensure the workflow grants `contents: write` permission (GitHub defaults to read-only).
- Check out the repository with `actions/checkout@v4` (fetch-depth defaults are fine because commits are created via the GitHub API).
- Pass a `github-token` secret with permission to create branches and PRs in the repository (the default `secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN` works for same-repo PRs).
- Optionally customize `update-pr-title`, `update-pr-body`, and `update-branch-prefix` to fit your repo conventions.
- In the repository settings go to **Settings → Actions → General → Workflow permissions** and enable **Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests**, otherwise GitHub will block the auto-PR.
- Overweight reuses the same update branch/PR per source PR (branch suffix `pr-<number>`), so subsequent pushes to your feature branch simply update the existing baseline PR instead of opening multiples.
- Use `baseline-protected-branches` to list branches or patterns (comma-separated) where baseline updates are forbidden; the default `main,master` protects the typical default branches.
- Manual workflows triggered on a feature branch automatically detect the open PR for that branch and reuse its baseline update PR instead of opening a new one.
- Baseline updates occur only when all size checks pass. Failing runs skip the baseline refresh entirely to avoid locking in broken results.


## Release & contributing

- The project is ESM-only and built via `tsup`
- Conventional commits are enforced via `simple-git-hooks` + `commitlint`.
- `pnpm run release` triggers `semantic-release`, which:
  - Checks commit history,
  - Updates the changelog,
  - Publishes to npm,
  - Creates a GitHub release/tag.
- `.github/workflows/release.yml` exposes a `dry-run` workflow input (defaults to `true`) so manual dispatches preview semantic-release without mutating tags or npm. Set the field to `false` to publish for real, e.g.:

```
gh workflow run "Overweight Release" \
  --ref release-main \
  --field dry-run=false
```

MIT License © Yoav Niran.

Commit message:

feat: enhance release workflow to update major version tag (#26)
- Added functionality to automatically update a moving
major version tag (e.g., `v1`) after a non-dry release.

README.md, after:

# Overweight

An all-in-one toolkit for keeping your bundle sizes in check. It ships with a CLI, Node API, and GitHub Action, plus a tester architecture that lets you decide how assets are evaluated.

## Highlights

- Drop-in configuration: define `overweight` entries in `package.json` or `overweight.config.json`.
- Works everywhere: CLI, Node API, and an official reusable GitHub Action.
- Extensible testers: start with `gzip` (default), `brotli`, or `none`, and plug in your own logic programmatically.
- Globs & multi-match aware: every file matched by a glob is tracked individually.
- Conventional commits + semantic-release driven publishing with automatic changelog generation.
- Modern successor to the original `bundlesize`: migration is trivial, yet the project stands on its own roadmap.

## Installation

```sh
pnpm add -D overweight
```

## Configuration

Keep your configuration close to your code:

- `overweight.json` (or `overweight.config.json`) at the project root (default when the CLI runs without args).
- `package.json` → `overweight` field (array or object with a `files` property).
- Any JSON file referenced via `overweight --config path/to/config.json`.

```json
{
  "files": [
    {
      "path": "./dist/vendor.js",
      "maxSize": "30 kB",
      "compression": "gzip",
      "label": "Vendor bundle"
    },
    {
      "path": "./dist/chunk-*.js",
      "maxSize": "10 kB",
      "compression": "brotli"
    }
  ]
}
```

Field reference:

| Field        | Type            | Description                                                                 |
| ------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `path`       | string          | File path or glob resolved from the config root.                            |
| `maxSize`    | string \| number | Accepts units (`10 kB`, `2MiB`). Numbers are treated as raw bytes.          |
| `compression`| string          | Tester id (`gzip`, `brotli`, `none`). Defaults to `gzip`.                   |
| `label`      | string          | Optional human-friendly label used in reports.                              |

## CLI

```sh
pnpm overweight
pnpm overweight --config ./configs/overweight.json
pnpm overweight --reporter json

# quick ad-hoc checks
pnpm overweight --file "dist/*.js" --max-size "15 kB" --compression brotli
```

Available reporters: `console` (default), `json`, `json-file`, `silent`.

```sh
# emit a machine-readable report
pnpm overweight --reporter json-file --report-file ./reports/overweight.json
```

## Node API

```js
import { runChecks, normalizeConfig } from "overweight";

const config = normalizeConfig({
  files: [{ path: "./dist/app.js", maxSize: "15 kB", compression: "brotli" }]
});

const result = await runChecks(config, {
  testers: {
    custom: {
      id: "custom",
      label: "custom",
      async measure(buffer) {
        return { bytes: buffer.byteLength / 2 };
      }
    }
  }
});

if (result.stats.hasFailures) {
  throw new Error("Bundle too big!");
}
```

## GitHub Action

```yaml
name: bundle-overweight-test

on:
  pull_request:
  push:
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  overweight:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: pnpm/action-setup@v3
        with:
          version: 9
      - run: pnpm install
      - uses: yoavniran/overweight@v1
        with:
          config: overweight.json
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          baseline-report-path: overweight-report.json
          update-baseline: true
          report-file: overweight-report.json
```

- `report-json`, `report-table`, and `report-file` outputs enable downstream workflows (PR comments, Slack alerts, artifact uploads, etc.).
- When `baseline-report-path` + `update-baseline` are set, the action refreshes the stored bundle size report on the branch that ran the workflow. If `baseline-report-path` is omitted and `report-file` is set, the baseline defaults to that path. The update runs on a dedicated branch + pull request using `update-pr-title`, `update-pr-body`, and `update-branch-prefix`. Use `baseline-protected-branches` (default `main,master`, supports glob patterns) to block updates on protected branches.
- `comment-on-pr-always` (first run only) and `comment-on-pr-each-run` control when PR comments are posted even if checks pass.
- Additional outputs (`report-file`, `baseline-updated`, `baseline-update-pr-url`, `baseline-update-pr-number`) make it easy to chain artifact uploads or follow-up workflows.

### Baseline auto-PR requirements

When `update-baseline: true`, Overweight will:

1. Regenerate the baseline snapshot locally.
2. Create a temporary branch from the PR's base branch.
3. Commit the updated baseline file with the bot identity.
4. Open a pull request targeting the base branch using the configured title/body.

To allow that flow:

- Ensure the workflow grants `contents: write` permission (GitHub defaults to read-only).
- Check out the repository with `actions/checkout@v4` (fetch-depth defaults are fine because commits are created via the GitHub API).
- Pass a `github-token` secret with permission to create branches and PRs in the repository (the default `secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN` works for same-repo PRs).
- Optionally customize `update-pr-title`, `update-pr-body`, and `update-branch-prefix` to fit your repo conventions.
- In the repository settings go to **Settings → Actions → General → Workflow permissions** and enable **Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests**, otherwise GitHub will block the auto-PR.
- Overweight reuses the same update branch/PR per source PR (branch suffix `pr-<number>`), so subsequent pushes to your feature branch simply update the existing baseline PR instead of opening multiples.
- Use `baseline-protected-branches` to list branches or patterns (comma-separated) where baseline updates are forbidden; the default `main,master` protects the typical default branches.
- Manual workflows triggered on a feature branch automatically detect the open PR for that branch and reuse its baseline update PR instead of opening a new one.
- Baseline updates occur only when all size checks pass. Failing runs skip the baseline refresh entirely to avoid locking in broken results.


## Release & contributing

- The project is ESM-only and built via `tsup`
- Conventional commits are enforced via `simple-git-hooks` + `commitlint`.
- `pnpm run release` triggers `semantic-release`, which:
  - Checks commit history,
  - Updates the changelog,
  - Publishes to npm,
  - Creates a GitHub release/tag.
- After each non-dry release run the workflow force-updates a moving major tag (e.g. `v1`) so consumers can reference `yoavniran/overweight@v1` for the latest release in that major line.
- `.github/workflows/release.yml` exposes a `dry-run` workflow input (defaults to `true`) so manual dispatches preview semantic-release without mutating tags or npm. Set the field to `false` to publish for real, e.g.:

```
gh workflow run "Overweight Release" \
  --ref release-main \
  --field dry-run=false
```

MIT License © Yoav Niran.
